TITLE:Pastor, I just can’t seem to do it
DESCRIPTION:When the sermon sets the bar too high...
SRC:https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1558518665-aa41dba55e2c?ixid=MXwxMjA3fDB8MHxwaG90by1wYWdlfHx8fGVufDB8fHw%3D&ixlib=rb-1.2.1&auto=format&fit=crop&w=1950&q=80

Sermons that are challenging and hard-hitting are intended to convict listeners of their apathy for the gospel. Yet there have been times where I, rather than being convicted of my apathy,  have been discouraged by how far I fall short of the bar. This often happens during the more turbulent seasons of life. I would enter a worship service well aware of my ongoing flaws, self-conscious of my inability to hand over my anxiety, idolatry and insecurity over to God. Unable to feel that peace from God, I would feel dissonantly disconnected with the service. As praises were given for the glory and goodness of Christ, I just couldn’t feel any of it. It is as if I’ve lost my note, unable to be in harmony with my brothers and sisters in sharing that amazement and wonderful awe for God. The sermon would not really be of help either. It highlighted all the imperfections I already knew; I was supposed to “rest my security in God”, “identity is in Christ” etc. Yet I just couldn’t do it. The anxiety and insecurities were weighing me down, telling me that I’m not a “good christian”, not “mature enough” to place my trust in God.

Yet again, for the grace of God and in answer to my prayers, he revealed to me the skewness of my thinking. God told me to stop being so legalistic. God told me to accept the reality that as hard as I may try and as much as I desire to trust him, that sometimes it simply can’t happen. That the perfect obedience of Jesus should be something that I eagerly wait for God to continually transform me into, rather than a standard to compare my own abilities with. God also uncovered a misconception that I had. I thought that the more “mature in Christ” I am, the “easier” it will be to trust God. While experiences of his love and grace do serve as encouragement, Jesus asks us to “take up the cross daily”. A monumental self sacrificial commitment that is to be done day after day. If that is what it means to be a follower of Jesus, it is also what it means to rest and trust in his promises. I now doubt there will be a day on this earth, where trusting God will be a walk in the park, but a deeply challenging commitment that we need to make day after day.
